## Data can be structured or unstructured.

#### Structured data 
Can be stored in:
Typically: Data Warehouses
-   Azure blob storage
-   Azure SQL Database
-   Azure SQL Data Warehouse

#### Unstructured data:
The schema can be defined at query time.
Can be stored in:
Typically: Datalakes
-   Azure Blob Storage
-   Azure Cosmos DB
-   Azure HD Insight

## ELT vs ETL
#### ELT
ELT is a typical process for ingestiong data from an on-premises database into the cloud.
With ELT the data is loaded directly to Cosmos DB or Data Lake. Once received you can start working on the transformation part.
The data is stored in its native format
Another benefit of ELT is that the raw data is available for multiple extractions.
Whi
#### ETL
The most common tool for ETL is Azure Data Factory
As part of the Extract process the following information must be supplied:
 - Define the data
 - Define the data source



## On Premisses vs Cloud
TCO - Total cost of ownership

## Cloud Features
High availability
Azure Data Catalog can store the information about organization data sources.

## The tasks of a data engineer
Data wrangling is the process of getting, ingesting, transforming, validating and cleaning data.


## Data Engineering processes
Project design:
* Source
* Ingest
* Prepare
* Analyze
* Consume

The best practice is to create both a provisioning workflow and a holistic workflow.


Core Microsoft Azure data platform technologies
## Data Types
#### Structured Data
Azure relational database systems:
* Microsoft SQL Server
* Azure SQL Database
* Azure SQL Data Warehouse
In Structured database schema is defined at **design time** 
The Data Structure includes:
* Relational model
* Table structure
* Column width
* Data types

Relational systems react slowly to data requirements
#### Unstructured Data
Examples: audio, binary, image files.
Saved in NoSql systems (non-relational systems)
4 Types of NoSql Databases:
* Key-Value store
* Document database
* Graph database
* Column database
#### Semi-structured data
Json, csv. 
Can be stored in NoSql

## Data Storage in Azure
Azure Store offers 4 configuration offers:
* Azure Blob - Text and binary
* Azure Files
* Azure Queue - Messaging queue
* Azure Table - NoSql store
You can use Azure Storage in the back when using a Data Platform such as:
* Azure Data Lake
* HD Insights
You can also use Azure Storage standalone

#### Blob Storage
Good if you want to store but not query data. If you need to query setup a Data Lake instead.
It is the cheapeast option
Good with images and unstructured data
If you use file upload to upload files >2Gb use PowerShell or Visual Studio
AzCopy supports a maximum file size of one terabyte and automatically splits files >200Gb
To ingest the data in the blob storage use:
	Azure Data Factory
	Storage Explorer
	AzCopy tool
	PowerShell
	Visual Studio
#### Data Lake Storage
Hadoop compatible. 
Unlimited scalability
Supports Security support for access control lists (ACLs)
Can store any type of data
Can be gen1 or gen2
	Gen1 queries the data using U-SQL language
	Gen2 uses either:
		Azure Blob Storage API
		Azure Data Lake System API
To ingest the data in a data lake use:
	Azure Data Factory
	Apache Scoop
	Storage Explorer
	AzCopy tool
	PowerShell
	Visual Studio

#### Cosmos DB
NoSql Db
Multi master replication can achieve response time of less that 10ms from anywhere in the World
In case of replication to mantain the consistency you have to use a set of consistency levels:
	Strong
	Bonded stillnes
	Session
	Consistent Prefix
	Eventual
Supports 99.999% uptime
Supports Data encryption, firewall configuration and access from virtual networks.
Supports several API:
	SQL
	MongoDB (semistructured data)
	Table API
	Gremlin API (graph)
	Cassandra API (wide columns)
Upload data to Cosmos DB:
	Data Factory
	CosmosDb API
	Upload JSON documents

#### Azure SQL Database
Supports structured format and unstructured such as spacial and xml data.
Different than Microsoft SQL server. (The one you would use in a VM) 
Can ingest data from a lot of sources. This include T-SQL

## Additional Technologies

#### Azure Synapse Analytics
Azure synapse analytics is a cloud based data platform that brings together enterprise data warehousing and big data analytics.
Key Features:
	SQL Pools use parallel processing to query across petabytes of data
	Scale Compute nodes independently of Storage nodes
	Use replicated tables for higher performance
	It supports distributed tables:
		Hashed
		Round-robin
		Replicated
	Pay only for the computation you use. Usefull in data warehousing
	Query using Transact SQL features
	You cand load data fast by using PolyBase with addition transact SQL construct such as CREATE TABLE
	Authentication. Supports both:
		SQL Server Authentication
		Azure Active Directory
	Supports security at the level of both columns and rows
	Azure Synapse Pipelines leverages the capabilities of Azure Data Factory and uses ETL

#### Azure Stream Analytics
Process streaming data
Don't use batch systems for solutions where real time is neccessary (self driving cars, fraud detection systems, etc). Use streaming data
Data ingestion can come from different sources:
	Azure event hubs:
		Provide Big data streaming.
		Uses partitioned consumer model to scale out
		Integrated in Azure:
			Datbricks
			Stream Analytics
			Azure Data Lake Storage
			HDInsight
	Azure IoT hub:
		Cloud gateway that connects IoT devices. 
		Allows bidirectional comm
	Azure Blob Storage

To ingest the data set up stream analytics jobs with input and output pipelines
	Intpus - Provided by event hubs. IoT hubs and Azurey storage
	Output - many storage systems. (blob, sql database, data lake, cosmos)

After storing the data run batch analytics in Azure HDInsight or send the output to a service like event hubs for consumption
To define job transformations use 'Stream Analytics Query Language' that is consistent with SQL

Security. Azure Stream Analytics handles security at the transport layer between the devie and Azure IoT hub

#### Azure HDInsight
Low Cost
Help you ingest, process and analyze big data.
Supports:
	Batch processing
	Data Warehousing
	IoT
	Data Science
Includes:
	Apache Hadoop
		Includes:
			Apache Hive
			HBase - NoSQL db built on Hadoop
			Spark
			Kafka
		Stores data in HDFS
		For quering hadoop suports these querying languages:
			Pig
			HiveQL
		For security it supports:
			Encryption
			Secure Shell (ssh)
			Shared access signatures
			Azure Active Directory security
	Spark
	HBase
	Kafka
	Storm
		Distributed real time streamlining analytic solution.
		Supports Java, C#, python
	Interactive Query - Allows to query without materialize the state to external DB or storage.

#### Azure Databricks
Fetarues
	One click setup
	Streamlined workflows
	Interactive workspace
	Role based security

#### Azure Data Factory
Retrieves data from one or more data sources and convert it into a format that you process.
Process and transforms data by using services such as:
	Azure HD insight
	Hadoop
	Spark
	Azure Machine Learning
Publishes output data to data stores such as:
	Azure Synapse Analytics
Azure Synapse Pipelines leverages the capabilities of Azure Data Factory and uses ETL

#### Data Catalog
Model or metadata and annotations.
Use it to allow users to disconver, understand and consume data sources.
It will be replaced by Azure Pureview


Microsoft Azure Storage Services
It is a managed service that provides durable, secure and scalable storage in the cloud.
	Durable. Safe in case of hardware failures
	Secure. All data written is encrypted
	Scalability. Highly scalable.
	Managed

4 Types of data
	Blobs
	Files
	Queues
	Table Storage (NoSql)

All of them are accessible via internet with http or https.
Blob:
	Images or documents
	Storing  files
	Streaming audio and video
	Storing data for analysis
	Three kind of blobs:
		Block Blobs. Text or binary files up to 5Tb
			Main use: Media files that are read from beginning to end such as media files
			Files larger that 100Mb are uploaded as 100mb blocks and later consolidated as the final blob
		Page blobs. Random access files up to 8Tb
			Backing Storage for the virtual hard disks
			They provide random read/write access to 512-byte pages
			Frequent for logging info from different sources to the same blob
			Up to 195Gb
		Append Blobs. Block blobs but optimized for append operations.
Azure Files:
	Enables you to setup a highly available network of shares that can be accessed using the standard server message block or SMB protocol.
	Many VMs can share the same files.
	Read the files using REST interface
	Associate a unique URL to any file
	Usage scencenario:
		Store shared configuration files for VMs, tools or utilities, log files, diagnostics, etc.
Azure Queue
	Save and retrieve messages
	Up to 64kb in size
	A Queue can contain millions of messages.
	Use queues messages to connect different parts of your application together.

Storages Accounts:
	v2 
		Is the standard storage account type for blobs, file shares queues and tables.
		Recommended for most scenarios
	Premium 
		Is the recommeded for block blobs and pen blobs. High transaction rates scenarios that use smaller objects. 
		It uses file shares only.
		It is for page blobs only?

Azure Storage Accounts Security Features
	By default all data stored is encripted
	The decription is automatic and does not affect the performance of the data
	You should ensure that all data transfered is secured with https
	Access to the storage accounts can be managed by:
		Keys
		Shared Access Signatures
	Azure Storage Accounts also supports Azure Active Directory and role based access control
	Azure Storage Analytics service is a built in tool to audit activity.

Exploring Azure Storage security features
	All data to Azure Storage is encrypted with SSE 256-bit AES cipher
	For virtual machines Azure offers Azure Disk Encryption
		Uses Bitlocker for Windows images
		Uses DM-script for Linus systems
	Azure Key Vault
		Automatically stores the keys to help you handle them
	Transport data securily by enabling Transport Level Security
	Always use https
	If you stablish a HTTPS connection
		HTTP requests are ignored
		This will alre enfore secure transfer over SMB by requiring SMB 3.0 for all file share amounts.
	CORS support CORS -> Cross domain access through cross origin resource sharing
		Via http headers one web app at one domain can access resources from a server at a different domain
		Cores web apps ensures that they load only authorized content from authorized sources
		Cors is an optional flag you can enable on storage accounts
	RBAC Role based access control. 
		You can assign RBAC roles that are scoped to:

	Auditing Access. do it with Storage analytics