Azure Storage
	Good for complete files:
		Documents that can be served in a website
		Images - Blob Storage
		Videos - Blob Storage
		Messages
		HD for Virtual Machines

For applications data (data created, updated, consumed by applications) you need to study it more.
Two solutions:
	Relational databases such as Azure SQL Database
		Provides elastic db tools 
	Non Relational DB (NoSQL) -> CosmosDB

Azure SQL Database
	Allows you to combine SQL data an JSON data.
Cosmos NoSQL Database
	Azure Cosmos DB NoSQL
		Can store structured, unstructured or semistructured data
		It supports SQL for queries
		It is ACID complient (Atomicity - Consistency - Isolation - Durability)
		Choose one of 5 consistency levels:
			Strong (Highest latency, Greatest consistency)
			Bounded-staleness
			Session
			Consistent Prefix
			Eventual (Lowest latency, least consistency)
		By choosing the right consistency you can trade off the levels of:
			Consistency
			Availability
			Latency
			Throughput
		Supports replication to any where in the world
		Use several technologies:
			Document
			Key value
				Use get, put, delete instead of SQL
			Column family
			Graph
				They use nodes
		Supports partition management
Both Azure SQL Database and Azure Cosmos DB support horizontal Scale


Structured
	Relational Data. 
	It has a schema.
Semistructured
	Less organized.
	It has tags that make the organization and hierarchy of the data apparent.
	Data follows a 'data serialization languages':
		JSON
		CSV
		XML
		YAML
Unstructured
	The organization is ambiguous
	Often delivered in files such as photos or videos

Data Serialization Languages


Determine Operational Needs
	Things to consider:
		Data usage
		Data Access
		Read-Only
		Query time

Group multiple operations in a transaction
A transaction is a logical group of database operations that execute together.
A transaction groups together a series of data updates so that if one event in a series fails the entire seies can be rolled back.
Example. Si estás gestionando una compra te tienes que asegurar que no reduces el inventario antes de recibir un pago
Answer this question:
	Will this change to one piece of data ion your data impact another? If the answer is yes you need to support transactions.
Transactions have a set of 4 requirements referred to as ACID:
	Atomicity. Execute only once and must be atomic (either everything is done or not)
	Consistency. Data is consistent before and after the transaction
	Isolation. One transaction is not impacted by another.
	Durability. The changes are permanently changed by the system.

OLTP -> The DB that a business uses to store all its transactions and records 
	Commonly supports:
		lots of users 
		Quick response times
		Large amounts of data
		large amounts of data inserts and updates. 
		They have very minimal downtime
		Handle small or relatively simple transactions.
OLAP -> Technology tht organizes large business databases and supports complex analysis.
	Complex analytical queries without negatively affectiong transactional systems.
	Ideal for:
		data mining
		Business intelligence
		Complex analytical calculations
		Business reporting functions

Choose a storage solution on Azure
Blob Storage
	Good for images and videos
	It allows CDN - Content Delivery Network. Catches most used content and store it on edge servers.
	Azure CDN reduces latency in servicing resources to the users
	You can also use Blob Storage to move files from the cool storage tier to the hot storage tier.
	If you have few files:
		You can put the blob in the Azure app service so that the same server that is running your app is accessing the files.
	If you have lots of files:
		Use Azure CDN


Azure SQL Database paired with Azure Analysis Services enables SQL over the data.
Azure Synapse supports O-lab solutions and sequel queries but not cross database queries.
Azure Stream Analytics. good for analyzing streaming data.



Azure Storage:
	Blobs
	Files
	Tables 
	Queues

Storage Account.
	Group together Azure Storage items
	Other services are indpendant! (CosmosDB, Azure SQL)
	By itself has no cost, but the settings you select will affect the cost of the services in the account.
	Settings:
		Subscription
		Location
		Performance
			Standard
			Premium
		Replication
			The minimun is 3 copies of your data in the datacenter (LRS)
		Access Tier
			Hot
			Cool
	Choose an account creation too
		Azure Portal
		Azure CLI
		Azure PowerShell
		
	