RECAP
Choose the right messaging technology
	Storage queues
	Event hubs
	Event grid
	Service bus
Implement message-based communication workflows
Communicate between apps with Azure queue storage

#### Message vs Event
Los mensajes cotienen los datos, los eventos no.
Cuando envías un mensaje eso se tiene que ejecutar bien. Es crítico.
Los eventos son más ligeros y funcionan con la arquitectura de publish - subscriber.
Si el que envía la señal espera que los datos se traten de un modo específico OR si los datos van adjuntos usa MESSAGE
En caso contrario, si una simple notificación vale usa EVENT

### Queues
Garantiza que llega el mensaje

Se usan por las aplicaciones distribuidas como almacenamiento temporal
Tipos de garantía:
	At-least-once delivery
	At-most-once delivery
	Firt-in-first-out (FIFO)
Transactional support ->Groups together several messages that are related. Just like databases.
 
### Azure solutions for messages

Hay 2 soluciones en Azure. Las dos funcionan con queues:
	Mensajes:
		Azure queue storage
			Messages that can be accessed with REST API
				To access the Rest API you need the URL that points to the queue and an authorization header included in every request
			Scalable. Millions of messages. Only limited by the Azure Storage capacity
			Up to 2000 messages/sec for a single queue
			Cheaper than Azure Service Bus. It charges based on storage
			Up to 500Tb
			64Kb max
			Up to 7 days retention time
			Does not support (in contrast to Azure Service Bus)
				FIFO guarantee or 
				Ordering messages
				Duplicate detection
		Azure service bus
			Intended for enterprise applications. Supplrts transactions, ordering, duplicate detection and instantaneous consistency.		
			There are topics. Can have multiple subscribers
			More expensive than Azure queue storage. Charges based on send/receive operation
			Up to 80Gb
			256kb/message in standard tier. 1Mb in premium by default and up to 100Mb if configure
			Up to 14 days retention time

### Azure solutions for events
Hay dos soluciones en Azure:
	Azure event hubs (Big Data streaming platform)
		Dead-Lettering: Not supported out of the box, but it is possible to implemented if using event hubs along with event grid.
		Each event is up to 1Mb. Events over 64kb are charged in 64Kb increments
		Partition - An ordered sequence of event. Buffers
		Create an event hub and eventhub namespace with CLI
			az group create -> Creates a resource group
			az eventhubs namespace create --name -> Creates a namespace
			az eventhubs eventhub create --name -> Creates a eventhub
		Subscribers - Consumers
			Can publish event individually or in batches (max 1Mb)
			Supports protocols:
				AMQP - Better performance. Initial session overhead
				HTTPS - Better for intermittent comms. Overhead for each request
				Kafka
			Creating event hubs. Two steps
				Define event hub namespace
					The namespace is where you define one or more event hubs
					The name has to be unique
				Create event hub in that namespace
			There are two classes in the Azure SDK for azure event hubs:
				EventProcessorHost.
					Simplified version.
				EventHubReceiver
					More lower-class. Gives you more control but requires you to manage partitions
	Azure event grid (Event Based architecture)
		Each event is up to 1Mb. Events over 64Kb are charged in 64kb increments.
		Dead-lettering:
			It will try to deliver the events for 24h if the subscriber is down. If >24h it can store the events in a 'dead-letter' location
		One to many. The publisher publish the event. The subscribers receive the event or not.
		Supports most azure services (as publisher or subscriber)
		Supports 3rd party
		Uses topics
			System topics. Buit in Azure
			Custom topics. 
		Event publishers (event sources) - Subscribers (event handlers)

### Azure CLI

Create resource group
	`az group create` 
Configure a default resource group for all the subsequent commands_
	`az configure --defaults group=<group_name>`
Create event hubs namespace
	`az eventhubs namespace create`
Create event hub (you need a event hub namespace first)	
	`az eventhubs eventhub create --name <event_hub_name> --namespace-name <event_hub_namesapce_name>`