Virtual Machines are IaaS solutions
Before you move something to a VM:  Start with the Network
The Virtual Machine will have a Virtual Network that can be shared with other VMs or services.
To organize the Virtual Network you can define subnets. For example:
	10.1.0.0 to VMS
	10.2.0.0 to back-end services
NSGs: Network Security Groups
	By default subnets can talk to one another. If you want to change that define NSGs 
	Control traffic to and from VMs and subnets
	They act as firewalls
Virtual Machine name:
	It is the name of the computer. 
		Up to 15 chars in Windows
		Up to 64 in Linux
	A good convention is to include the following info in the name:
		environment: dev, prod, etc
		location: uw, ue,
		instance: 01, 02
		product vs service
		role: sql, web, etc
	Example: 
		devusc-webvm01 (develpment - us central - web server - First instance)
VMs components:
	You can create them automatically when creating the VM or use existing ones
		Storage account
		Virtual Network
		Network interface
		Network Security Group
		Public Internet Address (optional)
Location:
	There are price differences
	Put the VMs close to users is usually a good idea
Size of the VMs:
	Ranges:
		General Purpuse
		Compute optimized
		Memory optimized
		Storage optimized
		GPU 
		High performance
You can resize VMs but the machines will reboot. Caution.

Costs:
	Two separate costs associated with every VM:
		Compute costs
			Priced per-hour, billed per-minute
		Storage costs
			No relation to the status of the VM. Event if the VM is stopped or deallocated!
	Choices:
		Pay as you go
		Reserved virtual machine instances
			72% savings compared as pay as you go.
HDs
	All Vm have at least two Hard Disks:
		One for the Operating system
		One for temporary storage
	Choices:
		Standard storage
		Premium storage (SSd)
	Choices:
		Managed disks (newer and recommended)
			Azure creates and manages the disk and the storage
			No storage account limits
		Unmanaged disks
			I/O limits. Could be difficult to scale
			This is the old system. Do not use.

Ways to create and manage VMs:
	Azure Resource Manager
		Allows you to use templates. JSON files
	Azure CLI
		Good for easy scenarios
	Azure Powershell
		Good for easy scenarios
	Azure REST API
		More powerfull but low level
	Azure client SDK
		Encapsulates Rest API
		Very powerfull.
	Azure VM Extensions
		Small apps that allows you to configure and automate tasks on Azure VMS after initial deployment
		Can be run with:
			Azure CLI
			Azure Powershell
			Azure Resource Manager
			Azure Portal
	Azure Automation Services
		Automate management tasks:
			Process automation
				Allows you to set up and watch your tasks, respond to events.
			Configuration management
				Track software updates, etc
			Update management
				Manages updates and patches
				Verify updates were applied successfully

Availability:
	If the server that host the VM fails Microsoft moves the VM to a new server automatically.
	The underlaying hardware and software is updated frequently. That can make the VMs to reboot. 
	Microsoft does not update or path anything in the VMs
Availability set:
	Deploy two instances of VM so that you don't depend on only one
	Azure guarantees VMs are spread into fault domains and update domains
	A Fault Domain in Azure is a set of hardware components that shares a single point of failure.
	An update domain is a hardware that can udergo maintenance or be rebooted at the same time.
	
	
Virtual Machines Sizes
Choose between 
	HDD
	SSD
		Standard
		Premium
By default 2 HD are created for any VM:
	Operating system disk
		Primary drive
		Up to 2048 GB
	Temporary disk
		Not persistent!
		/dev/sdb
		Mounted to /mnt
	You can attach additional disks:
		Up to 32,767GB per disk
Disks can be managed or unmanaged:
	Unmanaged
		You are responsible for the storage accounts
		You pay for the amount of space you use
		Up to 20000 I/O operations/sec
		Each storage account supports up to 40 disks
	Managed
		Solve the complexety of unmanaged disks for you.
Comes in packages.
	For general usage:
		B, Dsv2, DSv3, DSv2, Dv2
	For heavy computational tasks (like production application servers, batch processes): 
		Fsv2, Fs, F
	For large memory usage: 
		Esv3, Ev3, M, GS, G, DSv2, Dv2
	For data storage and processing:
		Ls
	For heavy graphics
		NV, NC, NCv2, NCv3, ND
	High performance
		H

Windows VMs
	Quota limits. By default you cannot have more than 20 virtual cores across all VMs within a region
	Virutal machine names: Up to 15 characters. No special characters
	Virtual machine password: At least 12 characters and three of these:
		At least 1 upper
		1 lower
		1 digit
		1 special character
	The maximum capacity of the c drive is 1TB.		
	The temporary disk goes to D: by default
	The data disk:
		Can store up to 32,767 GiB data per disk
		Ca be created from a VHD image from an existing disk
	Managed vs unmanaged:
		Same as linux
		Managed disks have suppor for snapshot (as VHD)
		Managed disks support backup


	
	
	
	
	