Azure Storage
	Good for complete files:
		Documents that can be served in a website
		Images - Blob Storage
		Videos - Blob Storage
		Messages
		HD for Virtual Machines

For applications data (data created, updated, consumed by applications) you need to study it more.
Two solutions:
	Relational databases such as Azure SQL Database
		Provides elastic db tools 
	Non Relational DB (NoSQL) -> CosmosDB

Azure SQL Database
	Allows you to combine SQL data an JSON data.
Cosmos NoSQL Database
	Azure Cosmos DB NoSQL
		Can store structured, unstructured or semistructured data
		It supports SQL for queries
		It is ACID complient (Atomicity - Consistency - Isolation - Durability)
		Choose one of 5 consistency levels:
			Strong (Highest latency, Greatest consistency)
			Bounded-staleness
			Session
			Consistent Prefix
			Eventual (Lowest latency, least consistency)
		By choosing the right consistency you can trade off the levels of:
			Consistency
			Availability
			Latency
			Throughput
		Supports replication to any where in the world
		Use several technologies:
			Document
			Key value
				Use get, put, delete instead of SQL
			Column family
			Graph
				They use nodes
		Supports partition management
Both Azure SQL Database and Azure Cosmos DB support horizontal Scale


Structured
	Relational Data. 
	It has a schema.
Semistructured
	Less organized.
	It has tags that make the organization and hierarchy of the data apparent.
	Data follows a 'data serialization languages':
		JSON
		CSV
		XML
		YAML
Unstructured
	The organization is ambiguous
	Often delivered in files such as photos or videos

Data Serialization Languages


Determine Operational Needs
	Things to consider:
		Data usage
		Data Access
		Read-Only
		Query time

Group multiple operations in a transaction
A transaction is a logical group of database operations that execute together.
A transaction groups together a series of data updates so that if one event in a series fails the entire seies can be rolled back.
Example. Si estás gestionando una compra te tienes que asegurar que no reduces el inventario antes de recibir un pago
Answer this question:
	Will this change to one piece of data ion your data impact another? If the answer is yes you need to support transactions.
Transactions have a set of 4 requirements referred to as ACID:
	Atomicity. Execute only once and must be atomic (either everything is done or not)
	Consistency. Data is consistent before and after the transaction
	Isolation. One transaction is not impacted by another.
	Durability. The changes are permanently changed by the system.

OLTP -> The DB that a business uses to store all its transactions and records 
	Commonly supports:
		lots of users 
		Quick response times
		Large amounts of data
		large amounts of data inserts and updates. 
		They have very minimal downtime
		Handle small or relatively simple transactions.
OLAP -> Technology tht organizes large business databases and supports complex analysis.
	Complex analytical queries without negatively affectiong transactional systems.
	Ideal for:
		data mining
		Business intelligence
		Complex analytical calculations
		Business reporting functions

Choose a storage solution on Azure
Blob Storage
	Good for images and videos
	It allows CDN - Content Delivery Network. Catches most used content and store it on edge servers.
	Azure CDN reduces latency in servicing resources to the users
	You can also use Blob Storage to move files from the cool storage tier to the hot storage tier.
	If you have few files:
		You can put the blob in the Azure app service so that the same server that is running your app is accessing the files.
	If you have lots of files:
		Use Azure CDN


Azure SQL Database paired with Azure Analysis Services enables SQL over the data.
Azure Synapse supports O-lab solutions and sequel queries but not cross database queries.
Azure Stream Analytics. good for analyzing streaming data.



Azure Storage:
	Blobs
	Files
	Tables 
	Queues

Storage Account.
	Group together Azure Storage items
	Other services are indpendant! (CosmosDB, Azure SQL)
	By itself has no cost, but the settings you select will affect the cost of the services in the account.
	Settings:
		Subscription
		Location
		Performance
			Standard
			Premium
		Replication
			The minimun is 3 copies of your data in the datacenter (LRS)
		Access Tier
			Hot
			Cool
	Choose an account creation too
		Azure Portal
		Azure CLI
		Azure PowerShell

Azure Storage Accounts Security Features:
	All data stored is encrypted by default. 256bit AES (Advanced Encryption Standard) cypher
	Https -> You should ensure that you use this by enabling the 'Secure Transfer' option
	Access to the Storage Account can be granted by:
		keys
		shared access signatures
	Active Directory
	RBAC -> Roled based access control
	Storage analytics service
		Audit the storage account
		Logs every operation, requests, etc
	Security at rest:
		Azure Disk Encryption
			For VMs. 
			Uses Bit Locker for Windows images
			Uses DM-Script for Linux
		Azure Key Vault
			Stores the keys automatically
	Security at transit:
		Always use HTTPS.
		If using HTTPS the same flag will ensure that you use SMB 3.0
		CORS Support (Cross Origin Resource Sharing)
			One app at one domain can access data from other app at other domain.
		RBAC Resource Based Access.
			Scoped to:
				Subscription
				Resource group
				Storage account
				Container or queue
	Storage account keys:
		Solution that supports blob storage and queues:
			Create authorized apps active directory to control access to the data in blobs and queues
		Solution that supports  blobls, files, queues and tables.
			Create shared key or shared secret
			Put the key in the http authorization header
		In Azure sotrage accounts shared keys are called storage account keys.
		Each storage has two keys.
		They keys give access to everything in the account.
		To change keys:
			Change all the apps to use the secondary key
			Regenerate the first key
			Change all the apps to use the new primary key
			Regenerate the secondary key.
Shared Access Signatures
	As a best practice Storage Account Keys should not be shared with 3rd party apps
	Use Shared Access Signature (SAS)
		It contains a security token that can be added to URIs
		It allows you to specify constrains
		Two level SAS:
			Service level SAS. 
				Allow access to specific resources in the storage account
				Typically:
					Users reading and writting data to the account
			Account level SAS. 
				Access to everything Service Level can allow plus:
				Create file systems
	Account that stores user data have two typical designs:
		Front-end proxy service
			Clients upload and download data via a front end proxy service that performs authentication
			Problem. Could be difficult to scale the service to match demand
		SAS provider service
			Authenticates the client as needed.
			Generates a SAS
			After receiving the SAS the client can access the Azure Storage directly

Control network access to a storage account
	By default Storage Account accepts connections from any networks.
	If you want to limit network access you need to change the default access
	You can restrict to 
		IP Addresses
		Range
		Virtual Networks
	Modify the default network access rules with:
		Azure Portal -> Storage account / Networking
		Azure CLI
		PowerShell

Advanced threat protection for Azure Storage
	Microsoft Azure Defender for storage.
	It incurs and additional cost
	Security alerts are triggered when anomalies in activity occur.
	Available for:
		Blob Storage,
		Azure Files
		Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2
	Account types that support Azure Defender:
		General purpose v2
		Block blob
		Blob Storage
	Available in:
		Public clouds
		US government clouds
	Azure file shares support transactions over SMB
	Accounts with hierarchical name spaces for data lake storage support transactions using both:
		Azure blob storage APIs
		Data lake storage APIs
	Enable it from Azure Portal.
		Storage account/Advaced security

Azure Data Lake Storage Generation 2 security features
		It is built on top of Azure Blob Storage. It inherits all of its features
		In addition:
			RBAC - Role-based access control
			ACLs - Access Control Lists (POSIX-compliant)
		Authenticate through Azure Active Directory OAuth 2.0 bearer tokens.
		The authentication schemes are integrated in the analytic services that use the data:
			Azure Databricks
			HDInsight
			Azure Synapse Analytics
			Management Tools
				Azure Storage Explorere
	
Build and app that stores user files with Azure Blob storage
	What are blobls
		Blob : Binary Large OBject
		Bad for: Blobs are not appropiate for Structured data that needs to be queried frequently.
			They have higher latency than memory
				Don't have the indexing features that make DB efficient
		Good for:
			Up to 8TB or data for VMs
			Soring data for analysis.
			Storing data for backup and restore disaster recovery and archiving.
			Streaming video, audio, etc
			Files for distributed access
			Serving files to a browser.
		Many Azure services use blobs behind the scenes.
			Azure Cloud Shell
			Azure Virtual Machines use blobs as hard disks.
			Used frequently in combination with regular DBs.
		Blobs live inside containes:
			A Container can have an unlimited number of blobs
			A Storage account can have an unlimitted number of containers
			Containers are flat. They cannot store other containers.
		The Blob Storage API is REST-based	
	Designing a storage organization strategy
		Unlimited blob containers per storage account 
		Unlimited blobs per blob container
		The only limit is 500Tb per Storage Account.
		One storage account is enough to store all your blobs. 
		Create more storage accounts to logically separate costs and control access to data.
		By default Blobls require authentication to access.
		Individual containers can be configured to allow public downloading
		Data downloaded from blob doesn't generate any traffic in your server side app
		Virtual Directories:
			Blobs are flat and do not support nesting
			But if you give your blobs hierarchical names that look like file paths listing operation can filter the results
		Three different kind of blobs:
			Block blobs
				Vary up to 100Mb
				Up to 50.000 blocks
				Max size 4.7Tb
				Good for large binary objects that change infrequently
			Append blobs
				Special block blobs that supports only appending new data.
				Do not support updating or deleting
				Up to 4Mb block size
				Max size 195Gb
				Goods for storing logs or writing streamed data.
			Page blobs
				Good for random access reads and writes.
				Up to 8Tb
				512-byte pages
				Virtual disk storage for VMs
		