
## Features

- More features and better security.

- The cluster has to be >= v 11.3LTS

- You can create catalogs, schemas, tables, etc using SQL or using the UI from the catalog section.


- When using Unity Catalog you move from:
`SELECT * FROM schema.table`
To:
`SELECT * FROM catalog.schema.table`
so Unity Catalog adds a new level to the namespace. From schema.table to catalog.schema.table

### Unity Catalog Object Model 

(https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/databricks/data-governance/unity-catalog/):

Metastore
	Catalog (dev, qa, prod...)
		Schema
			Table
			View
			Volume
			Function
	External Location		



You should not access the files for a managed table. You should use the tables directly:
```
%python
df = spark.table('demo_catalog.demo_schema.circuits')
```

Running queries:

- Use the fully qualify name
`SELECT * FROM demo_catalog.demo_schema.circuits;`

 - Specify Catalog & Schema:
```
USE CATALOG demo_catalog;
USE SCHEMA demo_schema;
SELECT * FROM circuits;
```

See current catalog:
`SELECT current_catalog();`

Show available catalogs:
`SHOW CATALOGS;`

Select a default catalog:
`USE CATALOG demo_catalog;`

Show schemas
`SHOW SCHEMAS;`

Select Schema
`USE SCHEMA demo_schema;`

Show tables
`SHOW Tables`


Three level namespace to access a catalog object: Catalog/Schema/Table

#### Identities in Unity Catalog

Three types of identities
* Users: 
	* Identified by e-mail address
* Service Principles: 
	* Identified by Application IDs
	* An Id to use with applications
* Groups: 
	* Grouping Users and Service Principles
	* Can be nested

Identity federation:
Identities in Unity Catalog Exists in two levels. Account and Workspace.
With identity federation the accounts are created once in the account console, then they are assigned to one or more Workspaces.


### Hive Metastore and Unity Catalog

If you enable Unity Catalog it won't replace the hive_metastore. You can work with both the Unity Catalog and the legacy hive_metastore if you want.
The tables register under the hive metastore will use the legacy system and the ones register under the Unity Catalog will use the Unity Catalog system.