
### Create Unity Catalog

* Create an Azure Databricks Workspace (Premium Tier)
* Create Azure Data Lake Gen2
	* Create a container that would be the unity catalog metastore (the container where all the schemas metadata, volumes, permissions, etc will be saved)
	* Name it something like `metastore-root`
* Create Databricks Access Connector
	* Do it on the same region as the Databricks ws, and azure storage
	* Copy the resource id.
* Add role **Storage Blob Data Contributor** on our Data Lake to the **Access Connector** using **Managed Identity**
	* Go to the Storage Account / Access Control (IAM)
	* Add / Add role assignment
	* Select Storage blob data contributor. Next
	* Choose 'managed Identity' and click on Select Members
	* Search the available managed identities and the connector should be there. Select it.
	* Click on Review and Assign.
* Setup Unit Catalog Metastore
	* Go to Databricks Workspace. Click on your email at the top right corner and 'Manage Account'.
	* Click Data on the left menu
	* Click Create Metastore
	* Select a name for the metastore 
	* Provide the path to ADLS Gen 2 container. It will be like this:
		* `<metastore-container>@<azure-storage-name>.dfs.core.windows.net/`
	* Provide the Access Connector Id. (The resource Id that you copied before)
	* Enable Databricks Workspace for Unity Catalog

### Provide you company users access to Unity Catalog.

For this you need SCIM (System for Cross Domain Identity Management) which links Microsoft Entra Id with Databricks.
- In Databricks Workspace:
	- Go to your email and click on Manage account to open 'Account Console'
	- On the left menu click on "Settings"
	- Select tab 'User provisioning' -> Set up user provisioning
	- Copy both:
		- SCIM Token
		- Account SCIM URL
- In Azure Microsoft Entra ID
	- Select Enterprise applications
	- Click on 'Create New application'
	- Search for 'Azure Databricks SCIM Provisioning Connector'
	- 'Select' it and 'Create'. When it is done...
	- On the left side menu click on 'Provisioning'
	- Click on Get Started
	- On provisioning mode select Automatic
	- On admin credentials enter the data generated on Databricks
		- Tenant URL -> Paste here the Account SCIM URL
		- Secret Token -> Paste here the SCIM Token
	- Save and exit
Select which users from Azure you want to see in Databricks:
	- Go again to Entra Id / Enterprise Applications and select the 'Azure Databricks SCIM Provisioning Connector'
	- On the left menu select Users and groups
	- click 'Add user/group'
	- Click 'Users'. Select the ones you want and click on 'Assign'
	- click provisioning from the left side menu and 'Start provisioning'

Create user group
1. Create 'User management' from the left side of Databricks Account Console
2. Go to groups tab
3. Click Add group button
4. Type  group name
5. Click Save button
6. click "Add members" button to add new members to the group.




